1. Why do traffic laws exist?
 to have common understanding of driving

2. What is a common cause of collisions
Taking a call on a phone

3. Who creates traffic laws
State Authorities

4. The acronym BAC stands for Blood Alcohol Concentration

5. You should always carry your drivers license when operating a vehicle.

6. Yellow Traffic light means Caution, a Red light is about to appear.

7. Covering the brakes means taking your foot from the Accelerator, and hovering it over the brakes.

8. Big rigs have a(n) very large foot blind spot.

9. If you want to practice driving defensively, you MUST be alert to your surroundings.

10. If you are the first one to witness a collision you should NOT: call your immediate family members.

11. The most common cause of a collision is unsafe speed.

12. Giving a turn signal from a minimum of 100 feet before you make a turn allows the vehicles behind to adjust their speed in time.

13. According to our text, it is estimated about 12 - 13 % of all road collisions occur because of mechanical failures.

14. Which of the following is not considered proper tire maintenance? purchasing a new tire

15. California law makes it mandatory that every vehicle (except a motorcycle) have 2 functional tail lamps that are visible around 1000 feet.

16. You can enter the bicycle lane once you are within 200 feet of the turn.

17. Regarding a center turn lane there are two lines painted on both the sides of the lane, where the inner line is broken and the outer line solid.

18. You will be allowed to drive a low emission vehicle in the carpool lane only when you have a decal from the DMV

19. What three colors will you find on most traffic signals? Red, Yellow, Green

20. Defensive driving refers to using techniques that aim at keeping you safe when conditions are not conducive to driving.

21. Loss of traction between the rear wheels and road surfaces like ice, sand, or gravel results in what is called Fishtailing.

22. While driving in California important documents that should be available at hand are a valid drivers license, vehicle registration, and insurance liability documents.

23. Poor Vision prevents you from judging distances.

24. A five sided yellow sign shaped like home plate for baseball with two people on it indicate that you are near a school.

25. While driving in school zones or within 500 to 1000 feet of a school, you should maintain a speed limit of 25mph or less.

26. Eye-Contact is an acceptable method of communicating with other motorists.

27. Medications and Alcohol have the capacity to weaken your good judgement.

28. The yield sign is a three-sided red sign.

29. A hands free device may be used IF it can be activated or deactivated with single swipe, tap, voice command.

30. When driving on snow covered roads, you should reduce your vehicles speed by 1/2 (half) to reduce the risk of collision.

31. According to our text, one of the most common injuries sustained through a vehicle collision is called Whiplash.

32. Pedestrians always have the right-of-way at crosswalks, which is a part of the road allocated for pedestrian traffic.

33. Hydroplaning is best described when there is a thin sheet of water between you and your tires and the road.

34. According to California Law leaving children 6 years of age or younger unattended in a vehicle is illegal.

35. The NOTS (Negligent Operator Tracking System) has/have been designed to keep a check on people with driving violations.

36. The blind spot behind a vehicle is one of the most common causes of collisions while backing up.

37. Continuous yawning is a sign that you are too tired to drive.

38. A GREEN LIGHT means GO and proceed only when the intersection is clear of vehicles, pedestrians, or bikers coming from another direction.

39. When you encounter an aggressive driver tailgating you, the first thing to do is slow down or stop to the side if needed, to allow them to pass you SAFELY.

40. Both Stress and Information Overload can be contributing factors that can cause collisions.

41. A flashing red light means STOP, then proceed only if the path is clear and is safe to do so.

42. Crosswalks are often marked with white lines. Yellow lines may be painted at school crossings.

43. Driving with a minimum .08 or more Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC), for drivers aged 21 or more, is considered illegal in California.
